README.md, before:

# Us 💜 - Your Personal Couple's App

A beautiful iOS app designed to help couples stay connected through shared voice messages, photos, and calendar events.

## Features

### 🎤 Voice Messages
- Record sweet voice messages for each other
- Play and listen to messages anytime
- Beautiful waveform animation while recording
- Syncs across both devices in real-time

### 📸 Photo Gallery
- Share photos of your favorite moments together
- Grid layout for easy browsing
- Both partners can add photos that sync instantly
- Full-screen photo viewing with captions

### 📅 Shared Calendar
- Add dates, plans, and special events
- Mark special occasions with a 💜
- Both can add and view upcoming plans
- Never miss an important date again

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites
- Xcode 15.0 or later
- iOS 17.0 or later
- An Apple Developer Account
- A Firebase account (free)

### Firebase Setup

1. **Create a Firebase Project**
   - Go to [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com)
   - Click "Add Project"
   - Enter a project name (e.g., "OurApp")
   - Disable Google Analytics (optional)
   - Click "Create Project"

2. **Add iOS App to Firebase**
   - Click the iOS icon to add an iOS app
   - Bundle ID: `com.yourname.ourapp` (or customize it)
   - App nickname: "Us"
   - Click "Register App"
   - Download the `GoogleService-Info.plist` file
   - Replace the placeholder file at `OurApp/OurApp/GoogleService-Info.plist`

3. **Enable Firestore Database**
   - In Firebase Console, go to "Build" > "Firestore Database"
   - Click "Create database"
   - Start in **production mode**
   - Choose a location close to you
   - Click "Enable"

4. **Set Up Firestore Security Rules**
   - In Firestore, click the "Rules" tab
   - Replace the rules with:

   ```javascript
   rules_version = '2';
   service cloud.firestore {
     match /databases/{database}/documents {
       // Allow anyone to read and write (since it's just you two)
       // For production, you'd want to add authentication
       match /{document=**} {
         allow read, write: if true;
       }
     }
   }
   ```

   - Click "Publish"

5. **Enable Firebase Storage**
   - Go to "Build" > "Storage"
   - Click "Get started"
   - Start in **production mode**
   - Click "Done"

6. **Set Up Storage Security Rules**
   - In Storage, click the "Rules" tab
   - Replace the rules with:

   ```javascript
   rules_version = '2';
   service firebase.storage {
     match /b/{bucket}/o {
       match /{allPaths=**} {
         allow read, write: if true;
       }
     }
   }
   ```

   - Click "Publish"

### Xcode Setup

1. **Open the Project**
   ```bash
   cd OurApp
   open OurApp.xcodeproj
   ```

2. **Update Bundle Identifier**
   - Select the project in Xcode
   - Under "Signing & Capabilities"
   - Change the Bundle Identifier if needed
   - Make sure it matches what you registered in Firebase

3. **Add Firebase Dependencies**
   - In Xcode, go to File > Add Package Dependencies
   - Enter: `https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk`
   - Select version 10.18.0 or later
   - Add these packages:
     - FirebaseFirestore
     - FirebaseStorage
     - FirebaseAuth

4. **Configure Signing**
   - Select your team under "Signing & Capabilities"
   - Enable "Automatically manage signing"

5. **Build and Run**
   - Select your device or simulator
   - Click the Play button or press ⌘R
   - Grant microphone and photo permissions when prompted

## Customization

### Change the Color Theme
The app is currently themed in light purple. To change the accent color:

1. Open `ContentView.swift`
2. Find the line: `.accentColor(Color(red: 0.8, green: 0.7, blue: 1.0))`
3. Adjust the RGB values (0.0 to 1.0 range)

### Change the App Name
1. Open `Info.plist`
2. Change the `CFBundleDisplayName` value
3. Or edit in Xcode under the project settings

### Customize User Names
Currently, items show "You" as the creator. To show actual names:

1. Add a simple user selection on first launch
2. Store the user's name in UserDefaults
3. Pass it to the Firebase upload functions

## Adding Authentication (Optional but Recommended)

For better security, you should add Firebase Authentication:

1. Enable Authentication in Firebase Console
2. Add anonymous authentication or email/password
3. Update Firestore and Storage rules to:

```javascript
rules_version = '2';
service cloud.firestore {
  match /databases/{database}/documents {
    match /{document=**} {
      allow read, write: if request.auth != null;
    }
  }
}
```

4. Add authentication code to `OurAppApp.swift`

## Usage Tips

### For You (Recording Voice Messages)
1. Tap the Voice Notes tab
2. Tap the + button
3. Record your message
4. Give it a cute title
5. Tap Save

### For Her (Listening to Messages)
1. Open the Voice Notes tab
2. Tap play on any message
3. Listen to your sweet words! 💜

### Adding Photos
1. Tap the Our Photos tab
2. Tap the + button
3. Select a photo from your library
4. It instantly syncs to both phones!

### Planning Dates
1. Tap the Our Plans tab
2. Tap the + button
3. Add date details
4. Toggle "Special Event" for important dates
5. Both of you will see it!

## Troubleshooting

### Firebase Connection Issues
- Make sure `GoogleService-Info.plist` is properly added to your project
- Check that Firestore and Storage are enabled in Firebase Console
- Verify your Firebase rules allow access

### Microphone Not Working
- Go to Settings > Privacy > Microphone
- Make sure the app has permission

### Photos Not Uploading
- Check your internet connection
- Verify Storage rules in Firebase Console
- Check photo format (JPG, PNG should work)

### App Won't Build
- Make sure all Firebase packages are properly installed
- Clean build folder (Shift+Cmd+K)
- Update to latest Firebase SDK version

## Architecture

- **SwiftUI** for the user interface
- **Firebase Firestore** for real-time data sync
- **Firebase Storage** for media files (photos & audio)
- **AVFoundation** for audio recording and playback
- **PhotosUI** for photo selection

## Privacy & Security

⚠️ **Important**: The default setup allows open read/write access to your Firebase database. This is fine for a private app just for you two, but:

- Don't share your Firebase credentials
- Don't share the app with others
- Consider adding authentication for better security
- Keep your `GoogleService-Info.plist` private

## Future Enhancements

Ideas to make it even better:
- Push notifications for new messages/photos
- In-app messaging/chat
- Location sharing for dates
- Countdown timers for special events
- Dark mode support
- Customizable themes
- Video messages
- Shared to-do lists

## License

This is a personal project created with love 💜

Enjoy your special app together!

Commit message:

Fix Xcode project setup - add proper instructions
- Remove invalid manually-created .xcodeproj file
- Add XCODE_PROJECT_SETUP.md with step-by-step instructions to create project in Xcode
- Update README.md and SETUP_GUIDE.md to point to new setup guide
- Users now create the Xcode project properly through Xcode UI, then add our source files

This fixes the "project is damaged" error caused by manually creating the Xcode project file.

README.md, after:

# Us 💜 - Your Personal Couple's App

A beautiful iOS app designed to help couples stay connected through shared voice messages, photos, and calendar events.

## Features

### 🎤 Voice Messages
- Record sweet voice messages for each other
- Play and listen to messages anytime
- Beautiful waveform animation while recording
- Syncs across both devices in real-time

### 📸 Photo Gallery
- Share photos of your favorite moments together
- Grid layout for easy browsing
- Both partners can add photos that sync instantly
- Full-screen photo viewing with captions

### 📅 Shared Calendar
- Add dates, plans, and special events
- Mark special occasions with a 💜
- Both can add and view upcoming plans
- Never miss an important date again

## Setup Instructions

⭐ **START HERE**: See [XCODE_PROJECT_SETUP.md](XCODE_PROJECT_SETUP.md) for step-by-step instructions to create the Xcode project first!

After creating the Xcode project, continue with Firebase setup below.

### Prerequisites
- Xcode 15.0 or later
- iOS 17.0 or later
- An Apple Developer Account
- A Firebase account (free)

### Firebase Setup

1. **Create a Firebase Project**
   - Go to [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com)
   - Click "Add Project"
   - Enter a project name (e.g., "OurApp")
   - Disable Google Analytics (optional)
   - Click "Create Project"

2. **Add iOS App to Firebase**
   - Click the iOS icon to add an iOS app
   - Bundle ID: `com.yourname.ourapp` (or customize it)
   - App nickname: "Us"
   - Click "Register App"
   - Download the `GoogleService-Info.plist` file
   - Replace the placeholder file at `OurApp/OurApp/GoogleService-Info.plist`

3. **Enable Firestore Database**
   - In Firebase Console, go to "Build" > "Firestore Database"
   - Click "Create database"
   - Start in **production mode**
   - Choose a location close to you
   - Click "Enable"

4. **Set Up Firestore Security Rules**
   - In Firestore, click the "Rules" tab
   - Replace the rules with:

   ```javascript
   rules_version = '2';
   service cloud.firestore {
     match /databases/{database}/documents {
       // Allow anyone to read and write (since it's just you two)
       // For production, you'd want to add authentication
       match /{document=**} {
         allow read, write: if true;
       }
     }
   }
   ```

   - Click "Publish"

5. **Enable Firebase Storage**
   - Go to "Build" > "Storage"
   - Click "Get started"
   - Start in **production mode**
   - Click "Done"

6. **Set Up Storage Security Rules**
   - In Storage, click the "Rules" tab
   - Replace the rules with:

   ```javascript
   rules_version = '2';
   service firebase.storage {
     match /b/{bucket}/o {
       match /{allPaths=**} {
         allow read, write: if true;
       }
     }
   }
   ```

   - Click "Publish"

### Xcode Setup

1. **Open the Project**
   ```bash
   cd OurApp
   open OurApp.xcodeproj
   ```

2. **Update Bundle Identifier**
   - Select the project in Xcode
   - Under "Signing & Capabilities"
   - Change the Bundle Identifier if needed
   - Make sure it matches what you registered in Firebase

3. **Add Firebase Dependencies**
   - In Xcode, go to File > Add Package Dependencies
   - Enter: `https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk`
   - Select version 10.18.0 or later
   - Add these packages:
     - FirebaseFirestore
     - FirebaseStorage
     - FirebaseAuth

4. **Configure Signing**
   - Select your team under "Signing & Capabilities"
   - Enable "Automatically manage signing"

5. **Build and Run**
   - Select your device or simulator
   - Click the Play button or press ⌘R
   - Grant microphone and photo permissions when prompted

## Customization

### Change the Color Theme
The app is currently themed in light purple. To change the accent color:

1. Open `ContentView.swift`
2. Find the line: `.accentColor(Color(red: 0.8, green: 0.7, blue: 1.0))`
3. Adjust the RGB values (0.0 to 1.0 range)

### Change the App Name
1. Open `Info.plist`
2. Change the `CFBundleDisplayName` value
3. Or edit in Xcode under the project settings

### Customize User Names
Currently, items show "You" as the creator. To show actual names:

1. Add a simple user selection on first launch
2. Store the user's name in UserDefaults
3. Pass it to the Firebase upload functions

## Adding Authentication (Optional but Recommended)

For better security, you should add Firebase Authentication:

1. Enable Authentication in Firebase Console
2. Add anonymous authentication or email/password
3. Update Firestore and Storage rules to:

```javascript
rules_version = '2';
service cloud.firestore {
  match /databases/{database}/documents {
    match /{document=**} {
      allow read, write: if request.auth != null;
    }
  }
}
```

4. Add authentication code to `OurAppApp.swift`

## Usage Tips

### For You (Recording Voice Messages)
1. Tap the Voice Notes tab
2. Tap the + button
3. Record your message
4. Give it a cute title
5. Tap Save

### For Her (Listening to Messages)
1. Open the Voice Notes tab
2. Tap play on any message
3. Listen to your sweet words! 💜

### Adding Photos
1. Tap the Our Photos tab
2. Tap the + button
3. Select a photo from your library
4. It instantly syncs to both phones!

### Planning Dates
1. Tap the Our Plans tab
2. Tap the + button
3. Add date details
4. Toggle "Special Event" for important dates
5. Both of you will see it!

## Troubleshooting

### Firebase Connection Issues
- Make sure `GoogleService-Info.plist` is properly added to your project
- Check that Firestore and Storage are enabled in Firebase Console
- Verify your Firebase rules allow access

### Microphone Not Working
- Go to Settings > Privacy > Microphone
- Make sure the app has permission

### Photos Not Uploading
- Check your internet connection
- Verify Storage rules in Firebase Console
- Check photo format (JPG, PNG should work)

### App Won't Build
- Make sure all Firebase packages are properly installed
- Clean build folder (Shift+Cmd+K)
- Update to latest Firebase SDK version

## Architecture

- **SwiftUI** for the user interface
- **Firebase Firestore** for real-time data sync
- **Firebase Storage** for media files (photos & audio)
- **AVFoundation** for audio recording and playback
- **PhotosUI** for photo selection

## Privacy & Security

⚠️ **Important**: The default setup allows open read/write access to your Firebase database. This is fine for a private app just for you two, but:

- Don't share your Firebase credentials
- Don't share the app with others
- Consider adding authentication for better security
- Keep your `GoogleService-Info.plist` private

## Future Enhancements

Ideas to make it even better:
- Push notifications for new messages/photos
- In-app messaging/chat
- Location sharing for dates
- Countdown timers for special events
- Dark mode support
- Customizable themes
- Video messages
- Shared to-do lists

## License

This is a personal project created with love 💜

Enjoy your special app together!
